[exciting opening theme music plays]
[sighs]
So, you want a match with him,
is that it, Mr. Unchained?
[Oliva] Oh,
and why would you think
I'd want a match with that upstart?
Listen,
nobody doubts your strength,
but what Baki
managed to pull off the other day,
just walking out
right through the front gate like that,
had a tremendous effect
on the other inmates.
[chuckles] Really?
Just over that little outing of his?
I don't really know
how to say this to you, but, uh…
[tense music playing]
[exhales slowly]
[Oliva] Just say it.
[warden] Hmm…
Baki going outside is different
than when you or Guevaru do it.
When either of you go outside the prison,
it's because
of the strength of the positions
that you've already
established for yourselves.
But, uh, when we're talking about Baki…
[exhales slowly]
Are you suggesting that the kid's strength
is more pure more than mine?
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
I really wasn't trying to say
anything like that at all!
But there's just been
some talk going around and--
So you think I should show them
what a walk out the front gate
really looks like?
This is why I didn't want
to say anything in the first place!
If you were to attempt
something like that,
then I'm completely certain that not even
the Marines would be able to stop you.
-[Oliva exhales slowly]
-[grunts in surprise]
I've heard some other talk
going around myself.
Like that the President is
quite a fan of martial arts.
So do me a little favor, warden,
and send him an invitation.
Put out a press release,
while you're at it.
[sputtering] I, uh…
It's gonna be
a spectacular sporting event,
put on by our own Arizona State Prison,
and broadcast to the entire world.
Oh, I see.
[Oliva] Just imagine the billing.
The legend, Biscuit Oliva,
the strongest man in America,
will be taking on Baki Hanma,
the strongest high schooler
in all of history.
Oh! I like the sound of that!
We can sell the rights
to cable television,
and have it broadcast
into every home all across America.
Wow, that's wonderful!
And I can practically guarantee
it'll have a much bigger economic impact
than just having
a bunch of inmates laying down roads.
You are a genius!
[Oliva] I'm envious.
[Maria] Of who?
[Oliva sighs]
The beauty that you possessed
was so stunning
that it turned every head in town
wherever you went.
But then you fell sick,
and after taking countless medications,
you came to look
the way that you do today.
Your health dwindled.
You've struggled for so long.
[gentle piano music playing]
But, look at you.
You remain as steadfast as ever.
You're still just as passionate,
just as uninhibited as you ever were,
as dignified as you ever were.
You kept on living your life
proudly and unapologetically.
It's just because I'm shameless.
-I bet you'd probably--
-Hey, come here.
You'd remain dignified
even if the entire world
turned its back on you.
-Just come here.
-[sighs in frustration]
I'm not sure I believe
that I really have the right to.
Are you going to make
a lady repeat herself yet again?
[smacks softly]
[Maria] Darling,
even I'm just barely holding on.
[sobs softly]
[sobbing in anguish]
[door unlocking]
[footsteps approaching]
-[Baki groans]
-[door closes]
I'll do it. I'll give you what you want.
[Baki] Oh?
Within two weeks' time,
every person in America
will be sure to know your name.
You really don't get it,
do you, Mr. Chained.
Are you going senile, Mr. Chained?
Oh, I see.
So you think I'm chained up.
Is that what you're sayin'?
All I want to do is fight you.
It doesn't need to be all fancied up.
So I don't need to wait
two weeks for anything.
And what do you mean by that?
I mean this, you big bitch.
[Oliva gasps]
Look, like it or not,
if either of us were to suddenly
make a move against the other person,
then it would all get started
right then and there.
You want to get it started right now?
Is that what you mean?
Face it, you're not a true fighter.
Tell me why
we would ever need anybody else
to witness a fight between the two of us?
Do you seriously not get it?
Right at this moment,
both of your thumbs
are cuffed together behind your back.
Do you actually plan on
fighting me in that condition?
Well, I am the one picking this fight.
-And besides…
-[Oliva groans]
[groaning]
[grunts]
[growls]
…I'm not quite as chained as you are.
[Oliva] Hmm.
Is that really how I appear to you?
Are you kidding me?
That's right.
You're so chained up it's pathetic.
That isn't what I'm talkin' about.
I'm asking you if you really think
that I'm someone you can beat
without using both of your hands?
[groans]
-[grunts]
-[groans]
-[kick lands]
-[groans, chokes]
-[thuds]
-[grunts]
You understand now, Mr. Chained?
This really ain't the time for you
to be worried about how you look.
[Oliva growls]
So sorry about that.
But don't worry, I'm with you now.
[both grunt]
[Baki groans]
[rumbles]
-What the…
-[groans]
Oh, boss!
[Oliva] I guess that I was wrong.
Seems the match really does start now.
[Baki groans]
Well, there's certainly no doubt
that you're the son of the Ogre.
I mean, look at you,
you're just so incredibly earnest
about fighting.
I was wrong about something else too.
It's just like you said to me earlier,
I wasn't actually a true fighter before.
[inmate] Oh…
I hope you'll forgive me.
[whooshes]
[both gasp in surprise]
[dramatic sting]
So sorry to keep you waiting.
[heavy metal music playing]
Now that you've
finally decided to wake up,
guess I'm not gonna be able
to keep fighting like this.
[popping]
[grunting]
[inmate uncertainly] Huh?
[popping]
Okay, you're a little less
constrained now,
but I'm afraid
that still won't be enough to win.
Oh, I'm not done yet.
-[popping]
-[muscles straining]
I see now.
The blood travels down into the arms
through the inner arteries,
and is transported back to the torso
by moving along the outer veins.
That's why when you injure your hand,
you hold something in your armpit,
so that it'll stop the bleeding
by cutting off the blood flow
through the inner arteries.
But with lats
that are as developed as yours,
the blood flow
in the arteries can be cut off
without even needing
to hold anything in the armpit.
By tightening the muscles
in your upper arms,
the flow in is cut off,
and the blood already in the lower arms
simply flows out through the outer veins.
Without blood, the hands and fingers
gradually become thinner until--
[mysterious sting]
[dings]
[Baki] Sorry for the wait.
Huh?
You know what you're talkin' about.
Yes, this is much better.
It's perfect.
Nothing in the way or holding us back.
There is a broken wall between us,
but, still, I get what you're sayin'.
Well, no matter,
we're finally face to face.
Just like in a ring.
[dramatic sting]
[whooshing]
-[Baki grunts]
-[thuds loudly]
-[gasps in fear]
-[gasps]
[mysterious sting]
[Oliva] Nice.
-[groans in surprise, straining]
-[Oliva] Yeah, that's it.
Good, Baki, good.
You're doin' really well.
That was a great body blow,
especially in these
restrictive conditions.
It's remarkable that you could get
so much force behind it.
-Tell me, Baki, how's this?
-[groaning]
You know what?
Why don't you just come over here!
Oh, shit.
[inhales deeply]
-[slams]
-[grunting]
-[crashes]
-[groaning]
[narrator] Rich Cox,
33 years old, American,
sentenced to 18 years.
[Rich] He was just stuck there,
right in the wall.
-[straining]
-[Rich] I mean, Baki was, just to clarify.
-[chuckles]
-[Rich] And then…
[Oliva yells]
[Baki groaning]
…he was pulled through it,
into the other cell.
-[wall crumbles]
-So there I was, looking through the wall.
Well, there wasn't even
a wall there anymore!
It'd become one giant cell!
-And then Mr. Unchained said…
-[Baki groaning]
Go on, Cox, get out of the way.
[grunts in fear]
You bet I got out of the way!
What came after that was just incredible.
-[Oliva] Mm.
-[Baki yelps]
[Rich] He was holding
Baki's arm and leg like this…
-[Baki gasps]
-…but did he throw him to the ground?
-[Baki yelps]
-[Rich] No, that isn't what he did at all.
[Oliva grunting]
[Rich] He swung him around like this.
You know what I mean?
Just flingin' him around.
Like a towel!
But he was doin' it to a person!
Just flingin' him!
-[whooshing]
-[Oliva grunting]
[Rich] How many times did he do it?
To tell you the truth,
I couldn't keep count.
[Oliva grunting]
[Rich] Obviously,
there was a difference in strength,
-but still…
-[Oliva grunts]
[Oliva yells]
[Rich] After that, he just let him go.
'Cause to the boss,
he was nothin' more than a towel.
[Baki gasps]
[Rich] And then, I'm not really sure.
-Why's that?
-[Oliva grunts]
-[crashing through walls]
-[inmates gasping in surprise]
[Rich] Whoa!
Because he went into the next cell,
and the next cell,
and the next, next cell!
[music fades]
[walls crumbling]
-[Baki groans weakly]
-[inmate whimpering]
[narrator] The second witness
was Edward Bacara, American,
29 years old, eight-year sentence.
[Edward] I know
that his nickname is Unchained,
but I just thought
that it referred to, you know,
things like authority, rules and laws.
[Oliva chuckles menacingly]
-[grunts]
-[Edward] All that's true, of course.
[Baki groaning]
[Edward] It's undeniable that
he isn't held down by that stuff.
[Baki groans]
[Edward] But that's what most people
would think when they hear that nickname.
-Right?
-[gasps]
[both grunt]
[Edward] Honestly, just being allowed to
do whatever you want would be amazing…
-[Baki groaning, shuddering]
-…but that isn't what his name means.
-It's nothing so abstract.
-[whooshing]
[Baki groans]
[Edward] "Unchained" really means
that there's no room that can hold him.
-[crashing]
-[gasps]
[debris clattering]
-[clangs]
-[groans]
[groans]
[Edward] I mean, the guy went
through three solitary cell walls.
No, sorry, make that four walls,
then broke down a steel door.
There's absolutely nothing on Earth
that could hold a guy like that in.
[Baki groans]
[Bob] Yeah, I'll tell you
what happened after that.
[narrator] Bob McCarthy,
27 years old, American, prison guard.
[Bob] All right, so he was standing there,
waiting for Baki to get up.
He had this surprisingly calm
look in his eyes,
as if he weren't in the middle of a fight.
And then…
[grunts]
-…as he was getting up…
-[Baki grunts]
Baki struck out
with a kick directly to the calf.
[gasping in surprise]
[Bob] It's amazing that Baki,
after being dropped on the concrete
from three floors up,
was counterattacking.
[dramatic sting]
But even more amazing
was how  easily Mr. Oliva grabbed him.
[Oliva grunts]
[gasps]
[Bob] He's so fast,
even with that big body of his.
[Baki grunts]
[Baki grunting]
[Bob] Baki kept on kicking him
with his other leg.
But Mr. Oliva just stood there,
holding him like
some kind of Olympic torch bearer.
And then he calmly directed us…
Hmm!
-[gasping in surprise]
-…to get back.
[kicks landing]
[Baki yelps]
[Bob] At first, I doubted my own ears.
-[whooshing]
-[Oliva roars like a bull]
[concrete shatters]
[gasping in shock]
[Bob] I'd never heard
a sound like that before.
[concrete rumbles]
[dramatic sting]
Baki Hanma's outline had been imprinted
into the concrete, as if he were a stamp.
When we measured it later,
it was nearly a foot deep!
What was Oliva thinking then?
I don't really have any idea.
He's a real man of mystery,
even to those of us who've spent
a decent amount of time around him.
[Baki groaning]
[gasping warily]
[Bob] My breath caught in my throat.
[groaning]
Baki was able to move under his own power,
even if it was just rolling over
from face down to face up.
[groaning]
[mysterious droning]
[Baki sighs contentedly]
That feels good.
Full power of America's
strongest man, Biscuit Oliva.
And this feeling,
this… sweet tingling running through me.
[exhales]
It's the same thing
that I felt five years ago.
That overpowering sensation
that I had when I was fighting
against my father, Yujiro Hanma.
[imperceptible]
It's essentially an echo
of the unfathomable difference
in fighting capability.
How nostalgic.
-[brain trilling]
-Ah. Ah, there it goes.
[low humming]
At last it's starting.
[unsettling whooshing]
[Baki gasps]
-[grunts]
-[squelching]
Huh? What? Am…
Am I melting?
[chuckles] Yeah, I'm liquefying.
I-- I-- I'm becoming coarse
and then smooth just like water.
No. Not like water.
I'm becoming even softer than water,
continuously expanding
until I fill up this entire place.
-[gasps, inhales]
-[loud bang]
[Bob] Yep, that's right!
Baki just jumped back up.
-[gasping in surprise]
-[Bob] Well, it wasn't exactly a jump.
It wasn't as simple as that.
The first thing I noticed
that made me realize
something major had changed…
-[gasps]
-…was the floor.
On the spot where he'd been lying,
right where his back
had been pressed against the ground,
the sweat stains that Baki left behind
looked just like a face!
[gasps in surprise]
I'd heard the tales and legends,
but that was my first time
actually seeing it.
It's something that only exists
in Japanese martial arts.
It's called Hit Muscles Exercise.
It's also called the devil's face,
and it's only acquired
through very specific training.
What's even more amazing is that,
standing there watching him,
Baki seemed to look like him,
the most skilled swordsman
in the world, Musashi Miyamoto.
You know who he is.
I mean, everybody knows him.
[guards whimpering]
It's said that
Musashi Miyamoto's physical ability
surpassed even that
of a modern gold-medal Olympic athlete.
And yet Baki Hanma, a mere teenager,
looked just like
that extraordinary martial artist.
What's going to happen now?
You're awfully late, Baki.
It's about time.
You really shouldn't make
your elders wait as long as this.
You look good now.
Shall we begin?
[Bob] I thought I knew what was next.
[rain pattering]
I saw it once in a Japanese movie.
Fate decided in an instant.
[swords slash]
It's a very unsportsmanlike conclusion.
Mr. Oliva was fully aware of the change
that had come over
the young man in front of him.
[Oliva] Beautifully done, Baki.
It seems that my attacks
have flipped a switch in you.
Hmm.
You know, cheap tricks don't suit me.
-Now, here I come!
-[whipcrack]
[dramatic drone]
[mysterious sting]
[thuds loudly]
[Bob] I swear to God and everything holy,
I'm absolutely certain
that in that moment I didn't blink.
Mr. Oliva was just about to move forward.
It looked to me like he shifted his weight
ever so slightly, and then,
as if he'd changed his mind,
he hit the ground!
It was such a high-level battle
that Westerners like us
couldn't really follow what happened.
But, we were lucky.
Because something else was watching
and had recorded the whole thing.
[mouse clicks]
All right, ready?
I'm going to start playback.
[mouse clicks]
At this point,
the two of them haven't moved yet.
-[mouse clicks]
-Right there! Baki starts moving.
But Oliva's still just standing there.
-[mouse clicking]
-He lands a hit!
All the footage from here on clearly shows
that Oliva had already been
knocked out by that blow.
[mouse clicks]
This is the point when our naked eyes
were first able to register any movement.
Just one second
after the start of the fight.
[gasping in surprise]
Oliva… didn't even
make an attempt to fight back.
Yes, that's right.
How can that be right?
[chuckles] I mean, come on.
Why would you say that?
Explain why he didn't fight back.
Because by that point,
Mr. Oliva wasn't even conscious.
[chuckles] Come on,
what is this, some kind of joke?
Are you really trying to say
he just lost consciousness
all of a sudden?
The video footage shows him
standing there, ready to fight.
[chuckles] It's obvious
he was completely good to go!
Well, yeah, that is true.
At least at first.
[Oliva] It's just as I thought.
You may still be little more than a child,
but you've grown a lot.
I'd expect nothing less from a Hanma.
I always knew you'd be great.
[gasping in surprise]
There's a book
that was written by Tor Nørretranders.
It's title is The User Illusion:
Cutting Consciousness Down to Size.
In that book, one of the most interesting
ideas that he writes about
is that our conscious understanding
of the world is delayed by half a second.
[intriguing music playing]
When a person moves,
especially in reaction
to an external event,
a signal is sent to the brain
0.5 seconds before the action
actually takes place.
For example,
you see a knife come flying at you.
The signal to move is sent!
But true consciousness of the situation
comes only half a second later.
It's at that point
that the brains says, "Danger! Move!"
And the action's taken.
In other words,
you're essentially unconscious
of the entire situation
during the 0.5 seconds it takes
to receive the signal that was sent.
And in that time, anything could happen.
We're talking about
the briefest of moments.
And yet, you made it all yours. Hmm.
[dramatic sting]
The many difficult situations
that you've been able to escape…
The stresses of your daily life
that kept pushing you…
And of course, the Hanma blood
coursing through your veins…
All of those assets
gave you the gift of half a second.
I suppose that it's an uncommon,
or even rare, technique,
and it's something that's basically
impossible to use in modern sports.
It really only exists
in Japanese martial arts.
But although it's, indeed, a treasure,
it's not something that I need.
And that's because I have this!
-[yells]
-[gasps]
[Baki] What the hell is that?!
[beeping, trilling]
[closing theme music plays]
Subtitle translation by: